To reduce side effects , patients should take a corticosteroid and folic acid ( a type of vitamin ) , and receive injections of vitamin B12 during treatment with Alimta .
If you need more information about your medical condition or your treatment , read the Package Leaflet ( also part of the EPAR ) or contact your doctor or pharmacist .
In contrast , patients whose cancer was affecting squamous cells had shorter survival times if they received Alimta .
What benefit has Alimta shown during the studies ?
It contains the active substance pemetrexed .
Alimta is used together with cisplatin ( another anticancer medicine ) when the cancer is unresectable ( cannot be removed by surgery alone ) and malignant ( has spread , or is likely to spread easily , to other parts of the body ) , in patients who have not received chemotherapy ( medicines for cancer ) before advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer that is not affecting the squamous cells .
For the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer , the effects of Alimta were compared with those of docetaxel ( another anticancer medicine ) in one study involving 571 patients with locally advanced or metastatic disease who had received chemotherapy in the past .
The effects of Alimta in combination with cisplatin were compared with those of cisplatin alone .
In patients who had received chemotherapy in the past , the average survival time was 8.3 months with Alimta , compared with 7.9 months with docetaxel .
Alimta should only be given under the supervision of a doctor who is qualified in the use of anticancer chemotherapy .
The active substance in Alimta , pemetrexed , is a cytotoxic medicine ( a medicine that kills cells that are dividing , such as cancer cells ) , which belongs to the group antimetabolites .
Patients receiving Alimta and cisplatin survived for an average of 12.1 months , compared with 9.3 months in those receiving cisplatin alone .
When Alimta is given with cisplatin , an anti-emetic medicine ( to prevent vomiting ) and fluids ( to prevent dehydration ) should also be given before or after the cisplatin dose .
If you want more information on the basis of the CHMP recommendations , read the Scientific Discussion ( also part of the EPAR ) .
Alimta is used in combination with cisplatin in patients who have not been treated before , and on its own in patients who have received another type of chemotherapy in the past .
For the treatment of malignant pleural mesothelioma , Alimta has been studied in one main study in 456 patients who had not received chemotherapy for their disease before .
In patients who had not received chemotherapy in the past , the average survival time was 10.3 months in both groups .
What is Alimta used for ?
The recommended dose of Alimta is 500 mg per square metre of body surface area ( calculated using the patient s height and weight ) .
This document is a summary of the European Public Assessment Report ( EPAR ) .
How does Alimta work ?
Treatment should be delayed or discontinued , or the dose reduced , in patients whose blood counts are abnormal or who have certain other side effects .
What is Alimta ?
How has Alimta been studied ?
However , in both studies , patients whose cancer was not affecting squamous cells had longer survival times if they received Alimta than if they received the comparator .
Alimta is used to treat two types of cancer : pleural mesothelioma ( cancer of the lining of the lungs that is usually caused by exposure to asbestos ) .
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription .
For more information , see the Summary of Product Characteristics ( also part of the EPAR ) .
It is given once every three weeks as an intravenous infusion lasting 10 minutes .
It explains how the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use ( CHMP ) assessed the studies performed , to reach their recommendations on how to use the medicine .
In the body , pemetrexed is converted into an active form that blocks the activity of the enzymes that are involved in producing nucleotides ( the building blocks of DNA and RNA , the genetic material of cells ) .
In all three studies , the main measure of effectiveness was how long the patients survived .
Alimta is a powder that is made up into a solution for infusion ( drip into a vein ) .
How is Alimta used ?
Alimta was also compared with gemcitabine ( another anticancer medicine ) , both in combination with cisplatin , in a study involving 1,725 patients who had not received chemotherapy for lung cancer in the past .
Alimta increased the survival time of patients with malignant pleural mesothelioma .
Alimta is not recommended for use in patients with moderate or severe kidney problems .
In the treatment of patients with non-small cell lung cancer , Alimta was as effective as the comparators .
