kalgebra is a MathML based graph calculator .
Every time you enter an expression , the " ans " variable value will be changed to the last result .
If we introduce the condition before the ? it will use this condition only if it is true , if it finds a ? without any condition , it will enter in the last instance .
Shuts the program down .
+ - * / : Addition , subtraction , multiplication and division .
Nice if you want to define some libraries or resume some previous work .
It does not matter what kind it is .
If it is , it will be treated as an operator , if it is not , it will be treated as a user function .
That s easy . With this , we can operate with functions like cos() , sin() , any other trigonometric functions , sum() or product() .
-gt : It s the way to specify the bounded variable in a function .
Generates text files so it should be easy to fix using any text editor , like Kate .
It is actually not necessary to know MathML to use kalgebra .
By double clicking on them you will see a dialog that lets you change their values ( just a way to trick the log ) .
To add a new 2D graph on kalgebra , what you have to do is to go to the 2D Graph tab and click in the Add tab to add the new function .
{ } : MathML container .
There you have a list of the declared variables .
Just use the Add button when you are in List mode .
If you have entered the function click on the OK button to display the graph in the main window .
kalgebra main window
I ve looked closely to maxima and maple s syntax so they look very similar .
kalgebra 's console is useful as a calculator .
abc(params) : When the parser finds a function , it checks if abc is an operator .
: = : It is used to define a variable value .
You can set several graphs on the same view .
Ctrl S Save Log
Powers are one way to make roots too .
Nowadays it is capable to make simple MathML operations ( arithmetic and logical ) and to representate 2D and 3D graphs .
Flushes the log .
Below these tabs you will find an input field to type your functions or do your calculations .
Ctrl L Load Script
Here 's a screenshot of kalgebra main window
I have based the syntax basically on common sense , it should not be hard for anyone .
( ) : It is used to specify a higher priority .
It can be used to define a container .
Then your focus will go to an input text box where you can type your function .
Saves the log with all results into an HTML file to be able to print or publish .
Also it is possible to use the unicode ² characters .
Executes the instructions in a file sequentially .
kalgebra is a mathematical calculator based on content markup MathML language .
Ctrl N New Window
? : Piecewise condition definition .
kalgebra main window consists in a Console tab , a 2D Graph tab , a 3D Graph tab and a Dictionary tab .
Ctrl G Save Script
Although it was initially MathML oriented it can now be used by everyone with little mathematical knowledge .
If we want to understand how it works , the best thing we can do is to realize that our input is being converted into MathML although it is not necessary to know MathML .
Mainly useful for working with piecewise .
Saves the instructions you have typed since the session began to be able to reuse .
Ctrl Q Quit
^ , ** : Power , you can use them both .
You can set each graph its own color .
We can use plus() , times() and everything which has its operator .
Piecewise is the way we can define conditional operations in kalgebra .
If you want to use a typical f(x) function it is not necessary to specify it .
Now you could ask me , why should the user mind about MathML ?
