Case Studies Each national report contains a portfolio of between 25 and 30 initiatives which best present policies and practices to improve the recruitment , training and development of ageing workers in both the work place and the community .
The Foundation organised , together with the European Commission , the Spanish Ministry of Social Affairs and the Galician regional government , a European conference on social exclusion : a major challenge for public welfare services .
The Foundation has recently been involved in organising a conference which dealt with this critical challenge .
The report and a case book of initiatives will be published in 1996 and provide the backdrop for a conference to be staged in Autumn , 1996 .
The gender and ethnic backgrounds of workers and how these relate to age discrimination are examined .
For each country , two or three initiatives have been selected for further in depth case study .
The Foundation recently published a comparative study as part of the EPOC project which assesses the extent to which direct participation can humanise work while increasing profitability .
Over 100 participants from the main interest groups attended and debated issues such as the role of key actors including public authorities , social partners , voluntary and community organisations as well as service users .
The Foundation aims to document the characteristics of age barriers in job recruitment and training and to analyse their causes .
Seeking alternatives to early retirement and redundancy , the project is primarily concerned with the retention , reintegration and retraining of older workers .
These case studies analysed the background of the initiatives , their impact on employment patterns and work organisations and assessed the benefits and problems of the initiative .
The study is based on 195 personal interviews with senior officials of the social partners as representatives of national level peak organisations in fifteen European countries .
There were relatively few cases reported of attempts to involve users in service planning but their involvement in service provision was found to be more common .
The perspectives of the social partners is also being examined , with particular attention paid to proposals for removing age barriers .
Seven member states are covered by the project : Belgium , France , Germany , Greece , Italy , the Netherlands and the United Kingdom .
Visits and interviews with key personnel were also undertaken .
As important industrial sectors , the metal industry and the banking sector were also included .
Key speakers at the social exclusion conference were ( left to right ) Cristina Louro , Employment , Industrial Relations and Social Affairs Directorate , European Commission Fernando Gomes , a high degree of Committee of the Regions Barbara Weiler , Member of the European Parliament José Maria Gil-Robles , Vice-President , European Parliament and John Carroll , Economic and Social Committee .
Note was also taken of the variety of different roles played by public welfare
Thirdly , the project documents and assesses initiatives , in both the public and private sectors which combat age barriers , especially for older workers .
The project also considers initiatives to combat age discrimination in rural areas and in small and medium sized enterprises .
These national studies will form the basis of a European report which synthesises overall practices .
