It explains how the Committee for Medicinal Products for Veterinary Use ( CVMP ) assessed the studies performed , to reach their recommendations on how to use the medicine .
For follow-up treatment , the animal owner can administer the tablets to the dog .
Cerenia was generally well tolerated when administered daily at dosages up to 5 times the recommended doses for an extended period of time ( up to 3 times the recommended maximum duration of treatment ) .
A large number of studies with Cerenia were carried out either in laboratory dogs or in animal patients at veterinary practises in several European countries and in the USA .
It is used in dogs to prevent vomiting such as vomiting caused by chemotherapy ( medicines used for the treatment of cancer , some of which are known to cause vomiting ) .
For these purposes , Cerenia can be given for up to five days
The tablets are pale-orange and have a score line on both sides so that they can be halved .
The treatment of a vomiting dog should be started with the injection , since vomiting animals might not be able to keep a tablet down ( as they might throw the intact tablet up again ) .
What are the precautions for the person who gives the medicine or comes into contact with the animal ?
This document is a summary of the European Public Assessment Report .
How has Cerenia been studied ?
Cerenia is an anti-emetic , this means that it stops vomiting .
In combination with supportive measures such as other veterinary treatment or a special diet , Cerenia can also be used in the treatment of vomiting ( either as injection or as injection followed by tablets ) .
Cerenia contains the active substance maropitant and is available as tablet or as solution for injection .
The results of the studies showed that Cerenia was more effective than the placebo : less vomiting was seen in dogs that received the medicine than in dogs that received a placebo , both in the treatment or in the prevention of vomiting .
Also , the treatment of vomiting should only be together with other supportive measure or other veterinary therapy while addressing the underlying causes of the vomiting .
Cerenia blocks a neurokinin 1 ( NK1 ) receptor , which acts in the central nervous system .
What is Cerenia used for ?
Cerenia does not represent a particular risk for people .
What is Cerenia ?
What benefit has Cerenia shown during the studies ?
What is the risk associated with Cerenia ?
How does Cerenia work ?
Each tablet is marked with the Pfizer logo on one side and with the letters MPT and the quantity of maropitant on the other side .
